What
kind of work ethic did Aggies have? Were they lazy
or energetic? In terms of building a bonfire? I
think
we didn't disregard our responsibilities. I
mean, if you don't keep your grades up, the
upperclassmen are on your back, and you had to post
your grades on the door. And if you flunk a course,
you're going to hear about it. But you also, we
didn't have a good system like we have now, but you
get some help sometimes. They'd say, Mr.
So-and-so wants you to come down to his room. And
we'd say, now, what's going on in your history
class, or whatever it was? And they'd try to help us
and things like that. When you arrived, who was the
commandant? Bull Boatner. Describe him. He was
like a bull. I had no personal relationships with
him. About what size was he? About your build, I'd
say. Five-nine? Maybe, I don't think he's any
bigger than that, but like I said, I never, you
know, I never trigon trotted. Why did y'all call
him Bull? That was his nickname. He was a bull.
That's what they're calling the trigon bulls.
And, uh, and Guy Malloy after him. M, how, how does
spell Malloy? M-E-L-L-O-Y. L-O-Y. And describe
him. Well, he was a tall, slender type guy, and, uh,
uh, he's, uh, very business-like. You didn't see
much of them, though, at my level again, because,
you know, they're taking care of the bin and the
tri-gun, whatever. I didn't see them in the Quad
very much at all. And, of course, I knew his career
quite a bit after that, because his son was one of my
students when I was an instructor at the command
zone of South College down at Lloyd Junior. And
Bill Boatner, of course, everybody knew about him
in Korea. and when he took over Cogedo Prison. Now,
he was not an Aggie, was he, Boatner? No, neither
one of them. That's what I thought. I had General
Boatner back down here one time when he was a
viewing officer, and he wasn't, I mean, he was
nice, but he didn't seem overjoyed. Describe as
much as you can that Corps revolt and march on
President Gilchrist's house. Well, of course, we
knew that this thing was stirring, that they were
going to move the fish out to Brownfield, and so I
think it emanated from the Houston area that this
is not going to happen, and it got organized that
we're going to not put up with this, and we want the
Corps to stand behind. These are former students
that were running this thing, I think. And so one
night at midnight, whistles blew and horns blow
and everything, and we fall out, and we're
marching on the President's House. I was a junior
there. And we fall out, and the Bulls come, and the
band was out there with the instruments, and the
Bulls told the band they were not going to use those
instruments. They were going to the United States
Army, which they did. And so they grounded those
and went back and got their own. A lot of them had
their own drums or whatever. So we marched in
formation over there, and not everybody in the
Corps went. And there was some speech making by
some seniors, which I couldn't hear, but I knew
what was going on. And the seniors were pulling
their diamonds off. I'm a junior, I got stripes,
and stupidly, I give them my stripes. Never did get
them back. But, you know, it's kind of all of the
leader stuff that wasn't smart enough to know you
don't do. And did President Gilchrist come out on
the porch and hear? But I don't know what, were
there shames there, but probably ordered us back
to the dorm. We then did not, no more formations. We
did go to class, we did wear the uniform, we saluted
the officers, and the rest of the life was as usual.
A bunch of the guys were going out across the state
making speeches. Again, I didn't know much about
that. We didn't like it, you know, because they
were all our fish. So it never worked. It didn't
work very well, I don't think. And the heart of the
argument was putting the freshmen out at Bryan
Field. Right. And the purpose of that was to try to
avoid hazing. Right, try to stop the hazing. It
still went on that scenario. I'm sure it's one of
them. People went out to Bryan Field to haze them. I
didn't, but I do know of people that did. And I did go
out there on occasion. They'd use some of the guys,
the doors would go out and conduct drills or
something like that. And I did that a few times. But
we just said there was no way I'd work with them four
years later. And they wrote that in three or four
years. And when they put them back in as
sophomores, the sophomores essentially were
doing what the freshmen were doing, cleaning
rooms. Now, when all of the brass and the stripes
were handed to President Gilchrist, he accepted
them, didn't he? He sure did. He didn't give them
back. I guess some people did. You had to go full
board.
So it was an unsuccessful... Well, yeah, I think
that it was a dumb thing, of course, as you look back
on it. I don't think it cost me anything in terms of
going in the military because my grades were not
sufficiently high to be a distinguished student.
So when I went in, I went in as a reserve officer
rather than a regular, and there was no prejudice
involved in my records that I knew of. But there
might have been on some of the others? Could have
been,
yes. During your four years here, were there any
sad events here? There were no fires, No tragedies
here on campus, were there? I don't remember any.
And the Korean War starts after you graduate, so
okay. I was already in there. So nothing like we had
last week where you remember where you were when
you heard the news. Do you remember going to Silver
Taps for the first time? I remember going to it, but
we already knew what you were supposed to do and so
forth, and it was a pretty sobering event. Did
everybody respect Silbertaps? Oh, sure. I mean,
this third place was blacked out. You wouldn't
dare wish for nothing. If you did, you'd pay a price
for it. We were very serious about that. Do you
remember going to Muster as a student? According
to where? Muster, as a student. I went to, they had
Muster up in front of the administration
building, and I went to it up there. Was there an
out-of-town speaker to Muster then? I don't
remember. Usually just somebody from the campus,
a football coach. And it was usually held early in
the evening, wasn't it? Yes. on the steps of the
admin building. What about yell practice? Yeah,
plenty of those up in Goodwin Hall Tuesdays and
Thursdays, I think. And then was there a midnight
yell practice? Yes. Where was it held? It was held
in various places, but I don't think we went to Kyle
Field for them more than once or twice. And was the
Grove? The Grove was operating and showing
movies. In fact, that's where some of the old
practices were. Let's see. Bonfire. Was there a
bonfire your freshman year? Just a pile of trash.
And where'd y'all get it? just went around and got
old stuff from the iron grocery store and wood. We
didn't take people's outhouses and things like
that. About how long did y'all work on Bonfire? I
don't think more than a week or two. It wasn't
really a significant event. How did it change,
bonfire, in your four student years? By the time
you were a senior, were there using logs? A few, but
nothing. There wasn't any transportation and
chainsaws. I mean, people didn't have trucks and
things like that, pickups. So it was about like a
high school bonfire now. And it really wasn't
that, to me it was not as significant an event as it
was later when I came back. And it was held on the
Driffin. Let's see, the, what was there at
Northgate in your student days? Well, there was a
drug store up there, and Pollock, and Zubik to
Taylor, and of course Lupo. Lupo, a barber shop. I
think there was one gift shop on the jewelry store
on the corner. And
I think it was right in the movie, I don't remember.
There was one eating place there, I think. And then
at South Gate was the pharmacy, the drug store. Oh,
okay.
And the railroad station was busy, wasn't it? Oh,
yes. The college station. Right. Where was the bus
stop? Where'd you catch them? I'd catch them off
the gate.
Not by the post I was pulling down, but I don't
remember what was there. I know I used to meet my
girlfriend from 2U there once in a while. And was
the Aggieland Inn still going? About how many... I
never was in it. It didn't have many rooms, I know.
Is that right? And when did the MSC construction
begin? Do you remember?
It wasn't while I was a student. It wasn't finished
when you were a student? No. It's after that? No.
Okay. I was about out. I don't remember. And so the
only place within walking distance of the campus
where an out-of-town guest could spend the night.
The dormitories. was in the dormitories or at the
Aggieland Inn. Well, there was a motel over at the
North Gate, I mean the East Gate. Yeah, yeah, but
that would be a long walk. Or there were some that,
you know, the profs boarded some of the doors, but
usually they dumped out of dormitories. As you and
your buddies looked at the campus leaders, what
was the most respected campus leadership
position?
Oh, we didn't look up to the Corps commander by any
means. He was too far away from us. But that was the
most glamorous student leadership role, wasn't
it? Oh, yeah, but the company commander was the one
that was the most influence on us. As far as you all
knew, how was the Corps commander selected? I had
no idea. I figured, well, for one thing, they had to
be on the contract. I know that for sure because I'm
the guy that changed the commander not having a
contract because I remembered I didn't have a
contract and I felt like I was as good as any other.
But the Army, the military was wrong about that, I
still think they were wrong. As far as you knew, how
was the outfit the company commander selected?
How was he run? How was he selected? He was first
sergeant. He didn't move up. But how did he become a
first sergeant? I presume that the class selected
and the sophomores select who in their group they
want to be the first sergeant. That's the way it was
when I was in the company of the battering. And what
did you and your buddies think about yell leaders?
Well, we didn't think them bad of them. We thought
they were pretty big wheels. It's a pretty, pretty
big job. One of the guys really liked to have the
day, too. And what about the band? Well, we loved
the band, but we didn't love them as a unit. My
senior year, my battery was on the bottom floor of
the band dorm, and we didn't have a lovely fire with
the band. They were on two, three, and four, and
they didn't want us in that dorm. Were the band,
were they noisy? Were they what? Were they noisy?
Oh, yeah, sure. They were bothersome to you guys?
Yeah, you bet. They harass us. Were there any
pranks back and forth? Not particularly. We
didn't, once in a while somebody's room would get
drowned out, but I think that was a personal type
thing. It only happened to me one time while we were
gone. My roommate was first sergeant, and he was
pretty tough on them. And we came back and
everything we owned was in the floor, and flooded
out. And, you know, I didn't do anything, but I
didn't, you know, after it set me back big in
Rwanda, believe me, they don't think about that.
Did you and your buddies know about steam tunnels
when you were a student? No. Did you ever go down in
them? Yeah. How far did you? Just far enough to get
down there and know I didn't want to be down there
and got out. As far as you know, from whatever
source, how far in that era, how far could somebody
have gone in a steam tunnel? I'm told you could get
as far as the library. Is that right? But I don't
know that for a fact. I do know a couple of guys that
were tunnel rats, you know, and that was what they
were known as in the course. I don't know what they
did down there. And wasn't there a way supposedly
to turn off the water and turn on the water? Well,
see, there was supposedly a secret organization
going around at the time, the T's or something like
that. The T.T.'s? T.T.' 's, and I don't know
whether they were involved with that or not. I
didn't, I knew that there was something like that,
but that's all I knew. Because I know old Bob, we
used to work for Colas before I died there. Anyway,
he was trying to track it down, but I don't think he
ever found it. Were you aware of any other, did you
ever hear of any other secret fraternity here? The
Stickers? The Swastikers?
Now, during your student days, these veterans
came back and there were big, big veterans housing
all over. How did A&M change during your
sophomore, junior, senior year with all those
veterans and those young brides and their kids? I
really don't think that there was any animosity or
anything. I think most Aggies were proud of all
these guys that, you know, did what they did. And I
think most of them are proud that some of these guys
will never be able to see a college. Reckon it,
reckon the grades went up? Oh, yeah. Yeah, you had
to, there's no question, competition I know I
worked harder because you could pretty much come
by before the vets came by. And the project houses
were still down there. They were still in use. Now,
you gradually changed your major. When did you
zero in on ag education? No, I was on just straight
education. Oh, education. That was my junior
year. And you had gotten advice from Dr.
Harrington. Who else gave you advice?
I really didn't have any close contact with
anybody after Dr. Harrington. And when did you go
to summer camp? summer
of, uh, 48. After your... Well, see, I didn't have a
contract until after my junior year. I had to have a
contract. So, uh, I was behind my classmates. I
went with the class behind me. And where did you go
to summer camp? Fort Sells. What was it like? Well,
you know, it was dark soup compared to being at it.
We had We had Aggie companies and OU had Oklahoma
companies and we competed with each other and got
along great. And of course we liked it because
everybody there was in the artillery business and
so forth, but Fort Sells had a good program back
then. Did, in hindsight, did that experience help
to make the active duty service more attractive to
you? I tell you, if there wasn't anything they
could have done, it wouldn't have helped them,
because I was very, very motivated towards it, and
also because of some family members that were in
the service during the war. The patriotism was
pretty high.
Let's see. We were talking a while ago about
drinking and so forth. What about smoking? What
did Aggies smoke in those days? Well, a lot of them
did. Cigarettes. What brands? I don't know. I
never smoked, and so I don't know. Do you have a
guess as to how many Aggies smoked? Percentage?
Half? Did they smoke in the dormitories? Was it
legal for them to smoke in their room? As far as I
know, it was not in their rooms. And did Aggie smoke
cigars except at games? No, I think it was strictly
a Yale practice type thing. What about pipes?
Rare. Chewing tobacco? Not like today. Snuff?
Nothing. They probably went on in like the Cavs
outfits and so forth. They didn't go in the
artillery outfits. I don't know what the
difference is. Did you and your buddies even know
the words marijuana or heroin?
I had no interest in drugs. Yeah, I thought those
were non-existent.
Let's see, and you said you went, you didn't go to
downtown Bryan very often. No. I went on the
trolley car when I did. Do you remember what it
cost? Ten cents. Ten cents. And caught it at
Northgate? at the North Gate and got off in
downtown Brown. There was a restaurant down there
where people used to go and eat, kind of a cafeteria
type place. And it ran about how often? I think it
was about every 30 minutes, but I don't know. I
didn't, like I said, I didn't eat it very often. And
you picked up your mail at North Gate? At George's,
I think. There was a mailbox down there about where
the trigon is. Oh, okay. a little cafeteria type
thing over there. See, we did silver tabs, muster,
yell practice.
How much did your senior ring cost? Do you
remember? I think it was just about the same thing
as the monthly pay of the contract, $28, $29. And
how did you feel when you put that ring on the first
time? Like I feel today. I'm thinking of getting me
another one. This is my second one. Do you have any
good ring stories where somebody recognized it
somewhere on the other side of the world or you lost
it and it came back or anything like that? No,
except that I'm always looking at somebody's hand
and particularly I go to Barksdale a good bit, and
Aggies are all over the place up there, and I belong
to that club up there too. So you make friends, and
you see them, and it don't take but a minute to be
telling lies together. But I don't know anybody
that had her brain recovered. I read these stories
in Aggie and so forth. My only ring story is the one
in the Cal display over there was Judy's ring that
died. And that was my first ring. And Ed was in, you
know, pregnant assistant. Ed Cooper. Ed Cooper
was working on some project over there on former
students, and I was talking about you know,
getting her a ring, and she wanted a big one. And I
said, Ed, you know, would Balfour do anything with
this old ring of mine? He said, I don't know, but I
found out. Well, he took my original ring and cut
this crest off and put her class year on there. And
that's my original ring with her class year on it.
Oh, hell no. In that case. And Balfour said they
won't do any more like that. So that is an original.
So the ring you're wearing now is your second.
Second ring. And because I was really proud of
Judy, and she had never had a chance to go to school.
And your boots, where'd you buy those? Hollock.
You remember what they cost? I'm sorry? How much
did they cost? $100. Where'd you get that? Saved up
for it. You had saved up from your, and how did you
feel when you put those on? You know, just like
putting it around. And where are they now? I sold
them to a guy that was in the band named T.A.
Carlton, and I don't know where he is now, but I sold
them for 70 bucks. And we didn't wear our boots like
they do now. We only wore them on special
occasions. Now they wear them all the time. And so
was your first time to wear them publicly at Final
Review your junior year? And did anyone in your
family come for that? My mother and daddy. And how
did you feel, and how did they feel? They were
proud. And was there any distinguished visitor
that day, any famous? I don't remember any. We just
didn't, I don't remember a whole lot of them, you
know, with the reviewing stand or anything like
that. Most of the time going to a choral review
wasn't much fun. Now, let's see. During your days,
didn't Patton or Eisenhower come to visit once or
twice? Not that I recall. They might have. Then
when you were a senior, describe final review and
commencement. Well, first of all, my class did not
have a commencement. We graduated the real
beginning, the ones that began. Some of them
graduated in ahead of time, but the main part of the
class graduated in January of 49, and we voted not
to have a ceremony. We had a commissioning
ceremony in Dine Hall, and that was it. We didn't
want it really, but because it was a hassle, we
wanted to get our commissioning and get on the way.
So we didn't have a commission. So you graduated in
January of 49? 49. January 19. And went on active
duty? First of March. First of March. As you look
back on it, what is it that creates this special
Aggie spirit? Why are Aggies so proud? I think it's
maybe because we're having an interest in each
other, and we're sticking together, and that's
just kind of bred into you when you're a fish. And if
you don't stick together, you'll never make it.
So, you know, even today, fish buddies will sell
you fish buddies. Are there some events that
encourage that sticking together? I don't think
any more than the living in the dormitory
lifestyle. But do silver taps and muster and yelp?
I think, you know, the guys that are RVs probably
have, they're melded, and the guys are in the
cowlower, and that sort of thing. You know, they
have a loyalty to the outfit, but also have that to
the activity. Fish-grilling people, for
example, are very tight, and that
was my mistake on that. And I should have never let
the Marines have that. I'm not putting the Marines
down, but they have a different attitude.
No, I don't know. That never occurred to me. The
whole Aggies didn't feel like I felt.
I know my brother doesn't feel as strong as I do. He
does now, but he didn't now.
Looking back on it, what did you learn at A&M that
has been important to you in your life? Well, I
think a lot of things I've already learned. I don't
lie to anybody. I don't steal. I wouldn't think of
it. And I can't tolerate drug uses and such as that.
And I went through a lot of it with my own kids. And I
think just standing by each other is really what I
learned about the Corps, that these are the guys
you can count on.
And through the years, how has that helped you? How
has this A&M experience helped you? Well, it
certainly opened a lot of doors in the Army, and
just like the west runners, you know, they help
each other. You see an Aggie, and he assumes that
you're you're going to be a good officer and you can
count on him. And I don't know that you can
differentiate between him and some other
officer, but the others may have to prove
themselves. That Aggie's already proved
himself. I didn't ever seek any employment or, you
know, being an Aggie got me a job out there because I
never worked in a civilian market. If, make
believe that we have just hired you to be the
consultant to A&M's leaders, and you're to advise
A&M's leaders about what they should do in the
future for this school. What advice would you give
A&M's leaders today? Well, for one thing, I don't
think I'd tell them we've got to cut the, we can't
continue to grow that everything. I think it's
getting to the point that I don't enjoy coming back
like I used to. I mean, I'm just talking short years
ago. But the kids are still the best kids in the
world. But I think that they get more rambunctious
than they used to be. I think a lot of things go on,
and I don't know how the administration can
control that. this off-campus type lifestyle,
just living together and so forth. It's tough. It
goes under dormitories, too. And I thought it like
hell when I was coming out, but I knew we was going to
have trouble with it. And there was a fair amount of
it that I had to take action on. So I don't know.
Academically, Goodness knows they're doing the
one thing I always hoped to do at a medical college.
And I think we're very strong in the arts. I used to
be an engineer, and to me, I'm not artistic in any
manner, but my leaning has always been in that
direction. And I'm glad to see it, and I'm proud of
the College of Education.
And I get sometimes weary of coming back to the
campus, because if you don't bring your checkbook
with you sometimes, you know, sometimes they
overdo that.